# POP Option Parser Documentation

## 3.1 Setup

For reference, look at [POP_example_usage.c](../../POP_example_usage.c) to see example of usage, it demonstrates pretty much everything in the library.
Also note, that header `POP.h` is pretty short and self explanatory.

You will need to use the library inside the C file with your main function, and it has to take the argument `int argc, char *argv[]` for getting command line input.

Include the POP library header with
```c
#include "POP/POP.h"
```
At the top of your main function, you must call `POP_opts_init()`. Likewise at the bottom of the main function you must call `POP_opts_cleanup()`, otherwise you may have a memory leak.
**Note:** If you wish you may `POP_opts_cleanup()` earlier to free memory early, but you must not call any functions from the library function after it, and you should not access the contents of the array returned by `POP_get_argv()` after it.

The workflow of the library involves by creating av variable to store the output of the option, initializing it with a default value, and then registering it to the library by calling an appropriate function(see sections 3.2 - 3.4). After this, you must call `POP_parse(argc, argv)`, which will do the heavy lifting and proses the user input and set your variables accordingly. You must also check if this parsing succeeded, like so:
```c
if (POP_parse(argc, argv) != PARSE_SUCCESSES) {
	return -1;
}
```
This way, if the user gives you bad input, the program will exit immediately.

After this your program can take action accordingly, based on the values of the variables.

---

Previous	          | Next
--------------------- | --------------------------------------------------
x                     |
