# POP Option Parser Documentation

## 2.1 POP Options

### 2.1.1 Options types

Options are command line arguments passed to the program when launching it, but are usually not required for the program to function.

There are two kinds of options in POP for example take this command:

#### **Figure 2.1.1.1: Types of Options Example**

 	$ git clone --depth 1 --progress https://github.com/Dr-McFish/POP-option-parcer.git
 	  ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
	  COMMAND   OPTION 1  OPTION 2	  ARGUMENT 1

 - Option 1, `--depth 1` has an argument, in this case a number. In POP this kind of option can be either represented with a "string option" if the argument needed is text or a specialized "integer option" for numbers like here.
 - Option 2, `--progress` is completely standalone, ether it on or it's off. In POP, this is called a boolean option.

### 2.1.2 Options names

In POP, options can have two types of names: long names and short names.

 - **Short Names** start with one dash(`-`) and a single capital or lowercase letter.
 - **Long Names** start with two dashes(`--`) and a follow with a continues string of ASCII text with no spaces. If multiple words are used it's a convention to replace the space with a dash.

#### **Figure 2.1.2.1: Names of Options Example**

	git commit -amend -m "Make cool contribution"
	           ~~~~~~ ~~
        LONG NAME ^    ^ SHORT NAME

You can name with any option type. 

You can group short options into a big block without a dash in between by typing a one dash(`-`) and then all the one letter names consecutively without spaces.

#### **Figure 2.1.2.2: Short Option Group Example**

	git commit -a -m "Make cool contribution"
               ~~~~~	
	EQUIVALENT TO:
	git commit -am "Make cool contribution"
               ~~~

**Note:** When short name options are grouped like this, if they are considered to have the same argument, in this case it would be `"Make cool contribution"`. So in general, it's a bad idea to group short options like this if more that one of them takes an argument. In this case, it's OK because `-a` is a bool option, so only `-m` takes an argument.

### 2.1.3 Arguments

Anything that is not an option or an argument of an option is considered an argument to the program, for example, see Figure 2.1.1.1 Argument 1.

### 2.1.4 Bad input

If the user of the user somehow missuses the options, for example uses a non existent option, POP will detect it print an error message telling the user exactly what they got wrong. 

---

Previous	                                                        | Index                  | Next
------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------
 [Compiling your project](../1.Setup/1.2_Compiling_your_project.md) | [Index](../README.md)  | [Setup](../3.Basic_Use/3.1_Setup.md)